<!-- source: www.cii.co.uk  extracted: 2025-10-24T23:03:45.629912 UTC -->

Unlock career opportunities with the CII

Showcase your credibility with membership of the Chartered Insurance Institute.

Showcase your credibility with membership of the Chartered Insurance Institute.

Future Focus

Our insurance and personal finance qualifications cater for all levels of knowledge and experience, from new entrants through to seasoned professionals.

Our insurance and personal finance qualifications cater for all levels of knowledge and experience, from new entrants through to seasoned professionals.

Membership

Qualifications

My CII

Latest articles

CII and PFS recognise excellence with Apprenticeship Awards and Qualification Prizes

As part of its commitment to upholding professionalism, and developing the next generation of talent, the Chartered Insurance Institute (CII) and Personal Finance Society (PFS) held their third annual Apprenticeship Awards and Qualification Prize giving ceremony on Friday evening (17 Oct 2025), recognising excellence across the insurance and financial planning professions.

Richard Susskind tells CII conference delegates:  Build the AI systems that will replace old ways of working

Professor Richard Susskind, author of How to think about AI told delegates of this year’s Chartered Insurance Institute (CII) conference to think ahead, as ‘the market will seek different ways of delivering the outcomes that you deliver’.

New CII report highlights key challenges in Consumer Duty Board reporting

A new report from the Chartered Insurance Institute (CII) highlights the key challenges faced by firms when producing Consumer Duty Board reports.

Closing the Trust Gap: How Early Insurance Education Builds a Stronger Market

Martyn Mathews, MD, SSP Broker, on how early insurance education benefits all parties in the market

Find out what we do

We are a professional body dedicated to building public trust in the insurance and financial planning profession. The Chartered Insurance Institute is Cyber Essentials Plus certified.

We are a professional body dedicated to building public trust in the insurance and financial planning profession.

The Chartered Insurance Institute is Cyber Essentials Plus certified.

Accessibility

Privacy

Terms and conditions

CII complaints policy

Customer Charter

Modern slavery statement

FAQs

Contact us

Chartered Insurance Institute 3rd Floor, 20 Fenchurch Street London, EC3M 3BY ​ Mon to Fri: 9am – 5pm (GMT)

Chartered Insurance Institute 3rd Floor, 20 Fenchurch Street London, EC3M 3BY ​ Mon to Fri: 9am – 5pm (GMT)

Tel: +44 (0)20 8989 8464 Email: customer.serv@cii.co.uk

YouTube

LinkedIn

Twitter

Copyright ©2025 The Chartered Insurance Institute. All rights reserved.