<!-- source: www.halifax.co.uk_mortgages_mortgage-rates_  extracted: 2025-10-24T23:03:45.430659 UTC -->

Mortgage rates

Find out what your mortgage rate might look like. Whether you’re a first time buyer or looking to switch, see how our mortgage rates compare and select the right deal for you.

Get a personalised mortgage rate

Types of mortgages

Types of mortgage rates

You might find lenders offer different types of mortgage rates. Here are some of the main types you could be offered.

What factors affect mortgage rates?

A range of factors affect your mortgage rate and eligibility, including:

Already a Halifax mortgage customer?

Interested in a Buy to Let property?

Let's take a closer look

How often do mortgage rates change? expandable section Mortgage rates can stay the same for years or they can change often, depending on various factors and market conditions. Factors like the Bank of England Base Rate, the housing market and the state of the economy can affect mortgage rates. But if you have a fixed rate mortgage, your rate stays the same for the length of your deal. If you’ve already applied for a Halifax mortgage, the rate we’ve offered you won’t be affected by any changes to our mortgage range once the mortgage illustration has been accepted.

How often do mortgage rates change? expandable section

Mortgage rates can stay the same for years or they can change often, depending on various factors and market conditions. Factors like the Bank of England Base Rate, the housing market and the state of the economy can affect mortgage rates. But if you have a fixed rate mortgage, your rate stays the same for the length of your deal.

If you’ve already applied for a Halifax mortgage, the rate we’ve offered you won’t be affected by any changes to our mortgage range once the mortgage illustration has been accepted.

What should I consider when comparing mortgage rates? expandable section You should make sure you can afford to make your monthly payments, including interest. Consider the terms of the mortgage and the length of the product when and how much you’ll have to pay, and whether there are any fees involved. If you’re considering a tracker mortgage, make sure you’ll be able to afford any increases to your repayments if the rate changes.

What should I consider when comparing mortgage rates? expandable section

You should make sure you can afford to make your monthly payments, including interest. Consider the terms of the mortgage and the length of the product when and how much you’ll have to pay, and whether there are any fees involved.

If you’re considering a tracker mortgage, make sure you’ll be able to afford any increases to your repayments if the rate changes.

How can I get the best mortgage rate? expandable section Mortgage interest rates are, essentially, how much it costs to borrow money from a lender to buy a property. The higher the interest rate, the higher your monthly mortgage payments are likely to be. The type of mortgage you have will determine the type of interest you pay. Fixed-rate mortgages generally come with a higher interest rate, while a variable mortgage will usually be lower but have no guarantee of your interest rate staying at this rate. With an interest-only mortgage, your monthly payments only pay the interest earned on the amount you borrowed. You don’t pay back any of the loan itself. The full loan must then be paid back at the end of the term.

How can I get the best mortgage rate? expandable section

Mortgage interest rates are, essentially, how much it costs to borrow money from a lender to buy a property. The higher the interest rate, the higher your monthly mortgage payments are likely to be.

The type of mortgage you have will determine the type of interest you pay. Fixed-rate mortgages generally come with a higher interest rate, while a variable mortgage will usually be lower but have no guarantee of your interest rate staying at this rate. With an interest-only mortgage, your monthly payments only pay the interest earned on the amount you borrowed. You don’t pay back any of the loan itself. The full loan must then be paid back at the end of the term.

Are there government housing schemes in the UK? expandable section Government schemes like Help to Buy or Shared Ownership are for first-time buyers under certain conditions. If you meet the criteria for using these schemes, you could get financial help with buying your first home. Find out more about government housing schemes .

Are there government housing schemes in the UK? expandable section

Government schemes like Help to Buy or Shared Ownership are for first-time buyers under certain conditions. If you meet the criteria for using these schemes, you could get financial help with buying your first home. Find out more about government housing schemes .

You could lose your home if you don’t keep up your mortgage repayments